update README (#1024)
WiVRn/WiVRn: README.md

- [Arch User Repository](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/wivrn-dashboard)
- [Fedora](https://packages.fedoraproject.org/pkgs/wivrn/wivrn/)
- [Gentoo Guru](https://gitweb.gentoo.org/repo/proj/guru.git/tree/media-libs/wivrn)
- [NixOS](https://search.nixos.org/packages?show=wivrn)

For OpenVR and Steam compatibility, you also need a compatibility library such as [xrizer](https://github.com/Supreeeme/xrizer/) or [OpenComposite](https://gitlab.com/znixian/OpenOVR/).

A Flatpak is available on Flathub for all distributions:

[![Flathub](https://flathub.org/api/badge)](https://flathub.org/apps/io.github.wivrn.wivrn)

The Flatpak contains both xrizer and OpenComposite.

> Note that due to Flatpak sandboxing, some features may not be available such as support for SteamVR tracked devices (Lighthouse) or virtual gamepad/keyboard/input devices forwarded from the headset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that due to Flatpak sandboxing, some features such as support for SteamVR tracked (Lighthouse) devices, or virtual gamepad/keyboard/input devices forwarded from the headset, may not be available.
```

- [Gentoo Guru](https://gitweb.gentoo.org/repo/proj/guru.git/tree/media-libs/wivrn)

> - [NixOS](https://search.nixos.org/packages?channel=25.11&show=wivrn)

Reviewer: oops, we should change this to not be channel-specific
```suggestion
- [NixOS](https://search.nixos.org/packages?show=wivrn)
```

For OpenVR and Steam compatibility, you also need a compatibility library such as [xrizer](https://github.com/Supreeeme/xrizer/) or [OpenComposite](https://gitlab.com/znixian/OpenOVR/).

> A flatpak is available on Flathub for all distributions:

Reviewer: caps nit
```suggestion
A Flatpak is available on Flathub for all distributions:
```

[![Flathub](https://flathub.org/api/badge)](https://flathub.org/apps/io.github.wivrn.wivrn)

The flatpak contains both xrizer and OpenComposite.

> Note that due to flatpak sandboxing some features may not be available such as Lighthouse tracked devices or virtual input devices.

Reviewer 2: What are the virtual input devices?

Author: It's forwarded keyboard, mouse and gamepad. Using uinput on PC side

> Note that due to flatpak sandboxing some features may not be available such as Lighthouse tracked devices or virtual input devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Flatpak contains both xrizer and OpenComposite.

Note that due to Flatpak sandboxing, some features may not be available such as support for SteamVR tracked devices (Lighthouse) or virtual gamepad/keyboard/input devices forwarded from the headset.
```

systemctl enable --now avahi-daemon
```

> On SteamOS, the avahi configuration needs to be modified, see https://github.com/WiVRn/WiVRn/issues/1001#issuecomment-4940906113

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On SteamOS, the Avahi configuration needs to be modified to allow user services such as WiVRn to publish services on the network; see https://github.com/WiVRn/WiVRn/issues/1001#issuecomment-4940906113 for instructions on how to do so.
```

Reviewer: also, are those instructions the best we have? Some steps seem unnecessary, such as setting the root password, initializing the pacman keyring and installing Git and base-devel.

Author: I don't have any SteamOS device, I can't tell what is really required.

Ideally we should also have a "fix it" mechanism in the dashboard, but that requires testing too.

Reviewer: We can just fix this later, this is already much better than before

- If a firewall is installed, open port 5353/UDP for Avahi and ports 9757/UDP+TCP for WiVRn.
- For example, if using UFW run `ufw allow 5353/udp` and `ufw allow 9757`.

### Start the PC server process
The graphical frontend is listed as "WiVRn server" in the application list, and is `wivrn-dashboard` on command line. On first start, a wizard will guide you through the initial steps.

> The actual server, for headless usage is `wivrn-server`. When installed through your distribution's package manager, a systemd user service named `wivrn` is also installed, which can be enabled to automatically start on login with `systemctl --user enable --now wivrn`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual server for headless usage is `wivrn-server`. When installed through your distribution's package manager, a systemd user service named `wivrn` is also installed, which can be enabled to automatically start on login with `systemctl --user enable --now wivrn`.
```

systemctl enable --now avahi-daemon
```

On SteamOS, the avahi configuration needs to be modified, see https://github.com/WiVRn/WiVRn/issues/1001#issuecomment-4940906113

- If a firewall is installed, open port 5353/UDP for Avahi and ports 9757/UDP+TCP for WiVRn.
- For example, if using UFW run `ufw allow 5353/udp` and `ufw allow 9757`.

### Start the PC server process
The graphical frontend is listed as "WiVRn server" in the application list, and is `wivrn-dashboard` on command line. On first start, a wizard will guide you through the initial steps.

> The actual server, for headless usage is `wivrn-server`. When installed by the OS, a systemd user service is also installed: `wivrn`, it can be enabled to automatically start with `systemctl --user enable --now wivrn`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual server, for headless usage is `wivrn-server`. When installed through your distribution's package manager, a systemd user service named `wivrn` is also installed, which can be enabled to automatically start on login with `systemctl --user enable --now wivrn`.
```

> For Steam games, depending on installation method, you may need to set launch options. Either GUI or command line interfaces will display the value if it is needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Steam games, depending on installation method, you may need to set launch options. Either the dashboard or command line output will display the value if it is needed.
```

> For Steam games, depending on installation method, you may need to set launch options. Either the dashboard or command line output will display the value if it is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Steam games, depending on the installation method, you may need to set launch options in the Steam properties for each game you want to run. Either the dashboard or command line output will display the launch command if it is required.
```

### Start the headset application
On the headset, when installed from the store, simply start `WiVRn`.

> When manually installed, it will be in an "unknown" sources section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the headset, when installed from the store, simply start `WiVRn`. If you installed the app via the dashboard, or manually via `adb`, it will be in an "unknown sources" section.
```

> On first start, it will ask if you want to enable some features such as microphone, hand tracking, eye tracking etc. as they will require permissions to be granted. It is possible to grant those later from the settings tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On first start, it will ask if you want to enable some features such as microphone, hand tracking, eye tracking, etc., as they will require permissions to be granted. It is possible to grant those later from the Settings tab.
```

> It is highly recommended to use default settings and only tweak them if you experience issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is **highly recommended** to use default settings, to only tweak them if you experience issues, and to return to the default settings if your tweaks aren't an immediate improvement.
```

Author: There isn't a button to revert to defaults on headset, for now I would drop the recommendation to revert changes if they don't help

### Connect to the server

> The headset application will start on a server list, your computer should be visible and have a connect button. Simply click it to start streaming.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The headset application will start on a server list. Your computer should be visible and have a connect button. Simply click it to start streaming.
```

> When the headset is connected, wivrn-server sets the OpenXR and OpenVR configuration to use WiVRn, the configuration is reverted once the connection ends and all running VR applications are closed. Applications will only be able to run in VR once the headset connection is established.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the headset is connected, wivrn-server sets the OpenXR and OpenVR configuration to use WiVRn. Thus, applications will only be able to run in VR once the headset connection is established. The configuration is reverted once the connection ends and all running VR applications are closed. 
```

> The headset connection also triggers creation of virtual speaker and (if enabled on headset) microphone. You will have to select them in your system configuration to set as default input and output, the setting will be persisted until an other devices is selected as default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The headset connection also triggers the creation of a virtual speaker and (if enabled on headset) microphone. You will have to set them as the default output and input devices in your system audio configuration. This setting persists to future sessions until the defaults are changed to other devices.
```

> The headset connection also triggers the creation of a virtual speaker and (if enabled on headset) microphone. You will have to set them as the default output and input devices in your system audio configuration. This setting persists to future sessions until the defaults are changed to other devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The headset connection also triggers the creation of a virtual speaker and, if enabled in the headset app settings, a microphone. You will have to set them as the default output and input devices in your system audio configuration. This setting persists to future sessions until you change the defaults to other devices.
```

### Start an application
When the headset is connected and no XR application is running, it will show an application launcher. Applications in that list are sourced from:
- Steam games that are flagged as VR. Steam may need to be restarted for the list to be updated when new games are installed.
- .desktop files that contain `X-WiVRn-VR` in the `Categories` section. Files are searched in [standard locations](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry/latest/file-naming.html#desktop-file-id) which usually include `~/.local/share/applications` and `/usr/share/applications/`.

You can set an application to be started automatically when your headset is connected, in the dashboard settings or [manually](docs/configuration.md#application).

## Steam Flatpak

> Flatpak applications are only able to access the flatpak version of WiVRn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flatpak applications are only able to access the Flatpak version of WiVRn.
```

When using a user installation of flatpak Steam, use `override --user` instead of `override`.

> The same overrides should work for other VR applications distributed as flatpaks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same overrides should work for other VR applications distributed as Flatpaks.
```

# Building

See [building](docs/building.md) for building the [dashboard](docs/building.md#dashboard), [server (PC)](docs/building.md#server-pc), and [client (headset)](docs/building.md#client-headset)

# Configuration

> Most settings are controlled through the headset app, the server has configuration for items that are specifically related to the computer. Use the dashboard to edit those, or see [configuration](docs/configuration.md) for editing it manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most settings are controlled through the headset app, while the server has configuration for items that are specific to the server. Use the dashboard to edit the latter, or see [configuration](docs/configuration.md) for editing it manually.
```
